Improve readme (#92)
snowdrop/snowdrop-automation-client: README.md

   * [snowdrop-automation-client](#snowdrop-automation-client)
      * [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
      * [Introduction](#introduction)
      * [Available commands](#available-commands)
      * [Configuration](#configuration)

>       * [Running the client locally](#running-the-client-locally)

Reviewer: I'd put how to run the client as one of the first things because that's what you usually need to do first (e.g. you can't try the available commands if you don't first run the client).

Author: My thinking was that the commands are the ones that are the most important. Especially if we'll get the client running on Hetzner. But I don't mind swapping the order.

Reviewer: I guess the current order is fine if we get the client running on Hetzner…

      * [Running the client in a container](#running-the-client-in-a-container)
      * [Available npm scripts](#available-npm-scripts)
      * [References](#references)

## Introduction

This project implements automation commands used by the Snowdrop team.
The commands are executed with Slack messages and integrate with Atomist SDM.

> This application can run in any environment that can run a Node.js application.
> Including a server in a private network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application can run in any environment that can run a Node.js application including a server in a private network.
```

## Available commands

### Update an example property

This command will update a `pom.xml` property of all of the Snowdrop example applications.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```

> update boosters maven property

Reviewer: Maybe we should rename `boosters` to `examples` at some point… :)

Author: Yep, this was my bad a few months ago. I renamed all the main commands but must have missed this one for some reason. I'll keep it in the readme for now and will change it one I refactor the command at some point in the future.

Reviewer: Gotcha.

```

> You will need to provide a git branch, property name and a new value of the property.

Reviewer: Maybe add an example?

Author: The commands themselves have examples and post them in Slack during the execution. I only want to provide the minimal info to introduce the commands here.

### Create a launcher pull request

This command updates our fork of the Launcher catalog and raises a pull request upstream.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
create launcher pr
```

You will need to provide a Spring Boot version that should be used by the Launcher (e.g. 2.3.0.RELEASE). The script will figure out which example tags to use based on that version and will update the Launcher accordingly.

### Update an example

> TODO

Reviewer: ?

Author: I skipped this one, because I have never used it and didn't feel competent enough to document it. I'll do this one separately another time.

### Generate licenses

This command generates licenses for a Maven project using [Licenses Generator](https://github.com/snowdrop/licenses-generator) and stores them in a `src/licenses` directory.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
generate licenses
```

> You will need to provide a repository's owner, name and branch.

Reviewer: Add an example?

### Release examples

This command releases all the Snowdrop examples. The release entails process entails the following actions:
1. Creating two tags - one with community release and one with prod release.
1. Generating licenses for each of the created tags (see [Generate licenses](#generate-licenses))
1. Bumping a project version in a branch on which this release is based on.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
release examples
```

> You will need to provide a Spring Boot version to which this release is tied (e.g. 2.3.0.RELEASE) and a prod BOM version of this release (e.g. 2.3.0.Final-redhat-00001).

Reviewer: While not tied to this README, we should probably change the command so that we only require the prod version and infer the Spring Boot release one.

Author: +1

Reviewer: I'll create an issue for it. 😄

Reviewer: See #93

### Release single example

> This command is identical to the [Release examples](#release-examples) except it released only a single example.

Reviewer 2: except it released only --> except it releases only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command is identical to the [Release examples](#release-examples) except it simply releases a single example.
```

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
release single example
```

In addition to the properties required by the [Release examples](#release-examples) you will need to specify which example do you want to release.

### Send release email

This commands send an email to our QE notifying them that a particular version has been released.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
send release email
```

You will need to provide a release version (e.g. 2.3.0.Final).

### Update after the BOM release

This command updates all the repositories that depend on our BOM release.
Firstly, it updates the BOM version in all of the Snowdrop examples. It sets a parent version and a Spring Boot property in the examples `pom.xml` files.
Secondly, it updates the BOM repository by appropriately bumping the development version. It calculates the next qualifier (`Beta`, `SP`, `Final`) based on the release version.

Send the following Slack message to Atomist:
```
update for release
```

You will need to provide an upstream version of the release (e.g. 2.3.0.Final).

## Configuration

### Licenses generator

> This client uses [Licenses Generator](https://github.com/snowdrop/licenses-generator) java application to generate the licenses. The jar file of the generator and its different configuration files are located in an `etc` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This client uses [Licenses Generator](https://github.com/snowdrop/licenses-generator) java application to generate the licenses. The jar file of the generator and its different configuration files are located in the `etc` directory.
```

### Email

Release notification email is send to a specific QE person. An email and a name of a person is configurable in an `email` section of a `config/default.json` file.

## Running the client locally

### Configure Atomist

The minimal required configuration is a `$HOME/.atomist/client.config.json` file with an API key and a workspace ID:
```json
{
  "apiKey": "API_KEY",
  "workspaceIds": [
    "WORKSPACE_ID"
  ]
}
```

You can get them from our [Atomist configuration dashboard](https://app.atomist.com).

For all the Atomist prerequisites see its [documentation](https://docs.atomist.com/developer/prerequisites).

### Setup Node.js environment

Node.js 8 or newer is required to run the client.
We recommend using the [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) tool for your Node.js version control.

Once the Node.js is available, install the project dependencies:
```bash
$ npm ci
```

### Start the client

We need to compile the Typescript files and then start the application:
```bash
$ npm run compile && npm start
```

> > Note. If you will use an email sending command, make sure a valid `SENDGRIDKEY` environment variable is available before starting the client.

Reviewer: What value should be pass to that variable? If we have more documentation on that aspect, we should point to it.

Author: I've never used this command. @geoand do you remember where did you store that key?

Reviewer 2: I've never use this command successfully, I always send the email manually, however, I have this environment variable defined on my machine.

Reviewer: I assume it requires registering with sendgrid.com and getting an api key from them…

Reviewer 3: I don't remember unfortunately. You should be able to just use any key however

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note. If you intend to use an email sending command, you will need to register with sendgrid.com, get an API key from them and provide it as a `SENDGRIDKEY` environment variable before starting the client.
```
